In today's class I'll share a series
of conclusions that start
from our professional experience,
in this case as strategy
consultants and working
with large corporations.
And I'll start with a very drastic
statement and it's that around
40% of organizations are pure
fat.
It's like if you have fat on the tripa,
it doesn't serve you for anything,
in addition to getting bad, making
you heavier, etc.
It is not worth nothing, it is worth nothing.
By the way, this is more dramatic in
more hierarchical and more functional
organizations.
The most modern, more democratic,
more horizontal, more flat, more
client-centered organizations,
this percentage may go from
40 to 10%.
But I want you to stay with
the idea, right?
You may be part of the organization,
but it's not your
fault.
In fact, you are the main damned,
because being part of the fat
is very dismotivating.
What I'm going to do is, since I've
done, let's say, that
this statement, let's make the
diagnosis, I'm going to share
with you why I say it.
Let us highlight four factors.
One, most people do a lot of
things, a lot of tasks, sit
at their job and do things,
but that are not aligned
with strategic goals,
do not bring a direct value.
That is number one.
The number two, the more people there
are in an organization, the more
heavy the organizations become,
the less agile they become.
Three, the intermediate command,
in many cases you may be an intermediate
command of your organization.
The intermediate commands in
vertical organizations do what
they do is destroy value, because
they make the company less
customer-centric.
And look, I share this photo
with you, which is from a book
by Tom Peters, from a book from the
year 92, in which he illustrated
how decision making made decision
making away from the client with
very vertical and very
functional organizations.
The more people there are in the middle,
the harder it is for information
to come well and it is vital that those
who make decisions understand customers
very well.
And finally, how many more people
we incorporate into the structure
of an organization and I'm sure you've
experienced this if you've seen
how a structure of few employees
grows to many, you're filing people
and you've got more needs
of all kinds, you have more support
needs for that people, you have
to go to larger offices,
there's more bureaucracy,
you need more people of accounting,
you need people of administration,
you need people of human
resources to file them, etc.
Well, these four factors are the
main causes of what we have said
of the large percentage of fat
in organizations.
By the way, we don't say what
we say about those resources,
because if organizations
are structured better, you could
take more advantage of those
resources and they't be
fat, but they could turn them
into muscle.
What happens is that with this type
of structure those resources not
only are not generating additional
costs, but the organization
becomes slower.
And now we go with the solution, that
the solution is also very radical and
can be assumed in this phrase and is
we will destroy the formal
organizations, we will dynamize them,
it is not a matter of decentralizing
what does not usually work,
of making more divisions,
we will destroy it all,
scrap and new account.
And what we're going to do
is turn that great organization into
small mini-organisations, in
five councils.
The first thing they have to be mini-
companies, that is, they have to
be formed by very few people, they have
to be very manageable organizations
and you will understand it well.
What do you think can motivate more?
What types of organizations are
you most aligned with with
strategic goals?
You want to innovate, etc.? to
If you work in one or it's easier to
organize, among 1,235 people, for example,
imagine what it's like to make decisions
among 1,235 people, however
much they are hierarchized
or between 16.
Well, because the answer is very clear.
Small organizations
work much better by duty
than large organizations.
Richard Branson, a visionary,
says that when people start
to not know the people who
work in the building, he
is sure that if you work
in a big company you get, you
ride the elevator and you
don't know who your colleagues
are.
Well, because at that moment the
company begins to become impersonal
and what it says is that it
must be disintegrated, it
must be destroyed, as we said.
In his case he says the limit
should be around 50 or 60
people.
That is, every 50 or 60 people
should work in different teams,
in different companies.
Well, we can do this in
two ways.
That is, we have to create mini-
businesses, but we have
to assign them tasks,
functions, goals.
What to do there are two options.
One, if your business, your environment
is stable, what you can assign them
are more stable functions, right?
They are like mini-businesses,
small business units that have
their goals, etc.
If, on the other hand, you are in a
more innovative, more dynamic environment,
what you can do is, in addition
to those business units,
organize yourself by projects, which
is basically the same, what we have
seen is a trend, that the large
matrix organizations are
increasingly creating more
internal projects.
One of the key aspects, and if
not, it won't work, is what's called
the concept of empowering.
These mini-businesses really
have to be mini-businesses, that
is, they have to have absolute
autonomy, they have to have their
results, they have to have their
ability to make decisions,
to invest, to buy this,
the other, to travel, to do
what gives them the taste.
You have to have talented people
who are able to make decisions, and
it is not that you have to delegate,
it is that you have to empower
them, give them the tools so
that they can do it.
What will we with
this?
Among other things, what we're going
to get, and it's something that's
really a very helpful advice,
is that we have to get everyone
in the organization to feel
entrepreneurs.
This may sound ambitious, but
it can be achieved.
And what we get is that when
someone is responsible for their
successes and failures, they play
with sales, with the investments
they make, etc., they will think like
an entrepreneur, they will think
like you.
What you get is that you are
much more motivated, you will
give 200% and also make you
happy of life.
We put this in
practice.
In many cases, with people from
the teams we assign you results accounts.
We don't set a sales target.
If you sell so much, we pay you a
bonus, no.
We assign a result account to
you, as if you were a shareholder
of the equity, as if you were
a more partner.
And you will participate in the profits.
That is, we will make a result
account with the sales that
will be generated, costs, margins,
your salary, etc.
And he will take a percentage of
those profits, as if he were a partner
of the parent.
And finally, as we have seen,
we have created mini-businesses
and created a very flat structure.
We will do it on two levels.
What we propose is that it is
a horizontal structure with two
levels, the mini companies or
projects and a top layer, a small
upper layer that is the leadership,
that what you have to do
is basically give support,
provide resources, define
the strategic vision, hire
talent, etc.
We will make a quick look
at the benefits we will.
We will make the organization,
the entire organization,
those mini-businesses
aligned with the strategic
goals.
Because it is much more flat, it
is very close, we will get it to be
a much more agile organization,
because instead of being 2000 people,
in the end, the decisions are made
in very small teams and no longer
depend on, those teams are autonomous,
no longer depend on what they
say about finance, the purchases
that put you in a trap, etc.
No, decisions are made and executed
very quickly, as if they
were small startups.
We're going to get people
much more motivated, because
when you feel a piece inside
a giant it's very dismotivating.
Instead, when you feel part of
a small company and know what
your decisions impact, what
you do on a daily basis, etc.,
you are much happier at work
and give a lot more of yourself.
And finally, what we're going
to is an organization that is
much closer to the customer.
Remember, that screen-up of the
book I've taught you, in which the
vertical structure does what it does
is to push away the decision-
making of the client.
In this case it is a very flat structure
in which everyone, the entire
organization will be closer
to the customer.